Adding readme to explain authentication, retry and timeouts in DeviceClient (#2096)
Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp: DeviceConnectionAndReliabilityReadme.md

> # Azure IoT Device Client C# SDK

Reviewer: Prefer `.NET SDK`, as it can be used in applications that aren't C#.

## Device connection and messaging reliability

### Overview

In this document you will find information about

- The connection authentication and renewal methods.
- The reconnection logic and retry policies.
- The timeout controls.

### Connection authentication

> Authentication can be done using either

Reviewer 2: even though TPM based devices eventually produce sas token, I think it is worth calling out those as a separate category  of authentication mechanism (TPM based auth is more secure and sas key based, and those are the ones customers are recommended to use in prod scenarios)

Author: Will add to the list

> - [SAS tokens](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-devguide-security#security-tokens) - [Sample usage](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-iot-samples-csharp/blob/master/iot-hub/Samples/device/TwinSample/Program.cs#L37)

Reviewer 2: would rather link to the reconnection sample here instead, since that is the one we would like to encourage customers to look at

Reviewer: Remove `en-us` path

- [x509 certificates](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-devguide-security#supported-x509-certificates) - [Sample usage](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-iot-samples-csharp/blob/master/iot-hub/Samples/device/X509DeviceCertWithChainSample/Program.cs#L43)

> - [Device Provisioning Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-dps) - [Sample usage](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-iot-samples-csharp/blob/master/iot-hub/Samples/device/PnpDeviceSamples/Thermostat/Program.cs#L90)

Reviewer 2: I think the dps symmetric key sample would work better here: https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-iot-samples-csharp/blob/master/provisioning/Samples/device/SymmetricKeySample/ProvisioningDeviceClientSample.cs

Author: I looked at the above sample. It is not the DeviceClient though. It is initializing the Provisioning Client. However, we want to be able to use the DeviceClient using DPS symmetric key right?

Reviewer 2: You do use the symmetric key based security provider to create the client instance: https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-iot-samples-csharp/blob/d275140a8116d496e923ee3202ea639dff2a9ee4/provisioning/Samples/device/SymmetricKeySample/ProvisioningDeviceClientSample.cs#L62

Author: Sure I can get onboard with that. I think it should matter if it is DeviceClient or some other client but we want to show the use of DeviceAuthenticationWithRegistrySymmetricKey.

> When using SAS tokens, authentication can be done by:

Reviewer: Colon suffix used here, but not above when starting a list. I think the colon is nice, and would suggest it in all places.

> - Providing the shared access key and letting the SDK create the SAS tokens by using one of the [CreateFromConnectionString](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/DeviceClient.cs#L121) options on the DeviceClient or an authenticationMethod other than DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh.

Reviewer 2: how about we list the auth methods that they can use, instead of saying ..."or an authenticationMethod other than DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh.". That way we don't leave this ambiguous.

Author: I can add a section on the auth methods we provide implementation for. However, customers can have their own implementation as well so I did not say, these are the only ones you can use. What do you think?

Reviewer: Language ambiguity about whether the user or the SDK using `CreateFromConnectionString` or `DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh`.

Also, I don't know if `authenticationMethod` is meant to be a parameter. I changed it to plain text. If it is, then use backticks to render it as code.

```suggestion
- Providing the shared access key and letting the SDK create the SAS tokens. To do this use one of the [CreateFromConnectionString](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/DeviceClient.cs#L121) options on the `DeviceClient` or an authentication method other than DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh.
```

Author: Made updates to the language and used back ticks to clarify.

    If you choose this option, the SDK will create the SAS tokens and renew them before expiry. The default values for time to live and renewal buffer can be changed using the [ClientOptions](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/ClientOptions.cs) properties.

>     - SasTokenTimeToLive : The suggested time to live value for tokens generated for SAS authenticated clients. Default value is 60 minutes.

Reviewer: When using `Label: value` notation, no space before colon

>     - SasTokenRenewalBuffer : The time buffer before expiry when the token should be renewed, expressed as a percentage of the time to live. Acceptable values lie between 0 and 100.Default value is 15%.

Reviewer: Space between `.` and `Default`

    Note: If the shared access policy name is not specified in the connection string, it will be set to - `<iotHubHostName>/devices/<deviceId>`

> >  

Reviewer: Why `>`?

Author: That is basically the default audience to generated the shared access signature. It will determine the access level. I will update the statement to make it clear.

Reviewer 3: I think David means why do you have `>` on a line by itself?

Reviewer: Yep, a greater-than-sign is for making a note. Why does one exist on a line by itself?

Author: Ahh it does not need to be there. It should been for the note but I messed up.

- Providing only the shared access signature

>     If you only provide the shared access signature and authenticationMethod is not of type AuthenticationWithTokenRefresh, there will be no automatic renewal.  

Reviewer 2: If they provide the sas token directly, there will never be any renewal handled by the sdk.

>  
- Providing your own SAS token using [DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh.cs) authenticationMethod

>     If you choose to use your own implementation to generate tokens, you can provide the time to live and time buffer before exipry through the DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh constructor. The ClientOptions apply only to other authentication methods.

Reviewer: time-to-live

When using x509 certificates, [DeviceAuthenticationWithX509Certificate](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/DeviceAuthenticationWithX509Certificate.cs) authenticationMethod can be used. The client authentication will be valid until the certificate is valid. Any renewal will have to be done manually and the client needs to be recreated.

### Connection retry logic

> For both AMQP and MQTT, the SDK will try to re-connect everytime there is any disruption. The default retry policy does not have a time limit and will follow exponential back-off.

Reviewer: reconnect requires no hyphen

Reviewer 2: any time there is a networking related disconnection

> For more details, see [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/devdoc/retrypolicy.md).

Reviewer: Instead of [here], perhaps [retry policy documentation]?

HTTP is a stateless protocol and will work whenever there is network connectivity.

### Timeout controls

> There are different timeout values that can be configured for the DeviceClient based on the protocol. These values are configuarable through the following transport settings that are passed while creating the client. There will be no changes to any of the settings once the DeviceClient is created. The client needs to be recreated with new settings to make changes.

Reviewer 2: DeviceClient/ModuleClient

AMQP transport settings - [AmqpTransportSettings](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/AmqpTransportSettings.cs)

> * IdleTimeout - The interval, in seconds, that the client establishes with the service, for sending keep alive pings. The default value is 2 minutes.

Reviewer: Elsewhere you use `-` for lists. Let's be consistent.

> * OperationTimeout - The time to wait for any operation to complete. The default is 1 minute.

Reviewer: Also in seconds?

Reviewer: Oh, none of these are really in seconds, as they are `TimeSpan`s. No need to specify the unit unless the data type is integer, right?

Author: Yes that is correct. They are all TimeSpan.

> * OpenTimeout - This value is not used (TODO: Confirm and update)

Author: When I looked at the implementation, it seemed like we use OperationTimeout for Open call as well. Let me know if this is not correct. Otherwise it would be worth updating that this value is unused by our SDK.

Author: @abhipsaMisra - wanted to check on this

> MQTT transport settings - [MqttTransportSettings](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/Transport/Mqtt/MqttTransportSettings.cs)  

Reviewer: Markdown linter suggests empty lines before and empty lists (which you've done above, but missed here).

Author: Fixed all markdown linter suggestions

> * ConnectArrivalTimeout - The time to wait for receiving an acknowledgment for a CONNECT packet. The default is 1 minute.

Reviewer: Unit?

Author: This is also a TimeSpan so I did not specify unit.

> * KeepAliveInSeconds - The interval, in seconds, that the client establishes with the service, for sending keep alive pings. The default value is 5 minutes.

Reviewer 2: The pinf request is actually sent once every (300/4) seconds = 75 seconds: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/c76a64de272da986b6840251f482249e094a725c/iothub/device/src/Transport/Mqtt/MqttTransportSettings.cs#L189
Whatever the ping request duration is, it will wait an additional 30 seconds for the ping response. The ping response timeout is not user-configurable.

Author: What about the IdleTimeout in AMQP? Does that work similarly too?

Reviewer 2: The AMQP idle timeout is a bit more encapsulated within the amqp library itself. When we establish a timeout of 2mins, the service needs to send a ping request once every 2 mins. This value is monitored by the amqp library itself. If it doesn't receive the ping request, it initiates a disconnect.

Author: Chatting offline to improve this.

# Azure IoT Device Client .NET SDK

## Device connection and messaging reliability

### Overview

In this document you will find information about:

- The connection authentication and renewal methods.
- The reconnection logic and retry policies.
- The timeout controls.

### Connection authentication

> Authentication can be done using either:

Reviewer: The word "either" implies 2 options. A better choice would be "one of the following"

```suggestion
Authentication can be done using one of the following options:
```

- [x509 certificates](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-devguide-security#supported-x509-certificates) - [Sample usage](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-iot-samples-csharp/blob/master/iot-hub/Samples/device/X509DeviceCertWithChainSample/Program.cs#L43)
- [Device Provisioning Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-dps) - [Sample usage](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-iot-samples-csharp/blob/master/iot-hub/Samples/device/PnpDeviceSamples/Thermostat/Program.cs#L90)

When using SAS tokens, authentication can be done by:

- Providing the shared access key and letting the SDK create the SAS tokens by using one of the [CreateFromConnectionString](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/DeviceClient.cs#L121) options on the DeviceClient or an authenticationMethod other than DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh.

    If you choose this option, the SDK will create the SAS tokens and renew them before expiry. The default values for time-to-live and renewal buffer can be changed using the [ClientOptions](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/ClientOptions.cs) properties.

>     - SasTokenTimeToLive: The suggested time-to-live value for tokens generated for SAS authenticated clients. Default value is 60 minutes.

Reviewer 3: Some thoughts I have here are to augment the readme with links to the doc comments along side--or in some cases instead of--the code implementation in GitHub. The implementation is great for us and other folks trying to improve the client but others will see this doc as a getting started guide and might be more inclined to explore the API this way.

Author: Sure sounds like a good idea. I like the idea of pointing to MSDN docs better than pointing to our code. Is that what you mean?

Reviewer 3: Correct.

    - SasTokenRenewalBuffer: The time buffer before expiry when the token should be renewed, expressed as a percentage of the time-to-live. Acceptable values lie between 0 and 100. Default value is 15%.

>     Note: If the shared access policy name is not specified in the connection string, it will be set to - `<iotHubHostName>/devices/<deviceId>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Note: If the shared access policy name is not specified in the connection string, it will be set to - `<iotHubHostName>/devices/<deviceId>`
```

>  
- Providing only the shared access signature

>     If you only provide the shared access signature and authenticationMethod is not of type AuthenticationWithTokenRefresh, there will never be any renewal handled by the sdk.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    If you only provide the shared access signature and authenticationMethod is not of type AuthenticationWithTokenRefresh, the renewal will not be handled by the sdk.  
```

Reviewer 3: Note, I see **sdk** and **SDK** in some places in the doc, we should pick one.

Reviewer: Yep, acronyms in plain speech should generally be all caps.

>  
- Providing your own SAS token using [DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh.cs) authenticationMethod

>     If you choose to use your own implementation to generate tokens, you can provide the time-to-live and time buffer before exipry through the DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh constructor. The ClientOptions apply only to other authentication methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you choose to use your own implementation to generate tokens, you can provide the time-to-live and time buffer before expiry through the `DeviceAuthenticationWithTokenRefresh` constructor. The `ClientOptions` apply only to other authentication methods.
```

When using x509 certificates, [DeviceAuthenticationWithX509Certificate](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/DeviceAuthenticationWithX509Certificate.cs) authenticationMethod can be used. The client authentication will be valid until the certificate is valid. Any renewal will have to be done manually and the client needs to be recreated.

### Connection retry logic

For both AMQP and MQTT, the SDK will try to reconnect anytime there is any network related disruption. The default retry policy does not have a time limit and will follow exponential back-off.

For more details, see [retry policy documentation](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/devdoc/retrypolicy.md).

HTTP is a stateless protocol and will work whenever there is network connectivity.

### Timeout controls

> There are different timeout values that can be configured for the DeviceClient/ModuleClient based on the protocol. These values are configuarable through the following transport settings that are passed while creating the client. There will be no changes to any of the settings once the DeviceClient is created. The client needs to be recreated with new settings to make changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are different timeout values that can be configured for the DeviceClient/ModuleClient based on the protocol. These values are configurable through the following transport settings that are passed while creating the client. Once the DeviceClient is created the settings cannot be changed. The client will need to be recreated with new settings to make changes.
```

AMQP transport settings - [AmqpTransportSettings](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/AmqpTransportSettings.cs):

> - IdleTimeout - The interval, in seconds, that the client establishes with the service, for sending keep alive pings. The default value is 2 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- IdleTimeout - The interval, in seconds, that the client establishes with the service, for sending keep-alive pings. The default value is 2 minutes.
```

- OperationTimeout - The time to wait for any operation to complete. The default is 1 minute.
- OpenTimeout - This value is not used (TODO: Confirm and update)

MQTT transport settings - [MqttTransportSettings](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/src/Transport/Mqtt/MqttTransportSettings.cs):

- ConnectArrivalTimeout - The time to wait for receiving an acknowledgment for a CONNECT packet. The default is 1 minute.

> - KeepAliveInSeconds - The interval, in seconds, that the client establishes with the service, for sending keep alive pings. The default value is 5 minutes. The client will send a ping request 4 times per keep-alive duration set. It will wait for 30 seconds for the ping response, else mark the connection as disconnected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- KeepAliveInSeconds - The interval, in seconds, that the client establishes with the service, for sending keep-alive pings. The default value is 5 minutes. The client will send a ping request 4 times per keep-alive duration set. It will wait for 30 seconds for the ping response, else mark the connection as disconnected.
```

> - DeviceReceiveAckTimeout -  The time a device will wait, for an acknowledgment from service. The default is 5 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DeviceReceiveAckTimeout -  The time a device will wait for an acknowledgment from service. The default is 5 minutes.
```

- [DeviceAuthenticationWithTpm](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.azure.devices.client.deviceauthenticationwithtpm) - Authentication method that uses a shared access signature token generated using TPM and allows for token refresh.
- [DeviceAuthenticationWithX509Certificate](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.azure.devices.client.deviceauthenticationwithx509certificate) - Authentication method that uses a X.509 certificates.

### Connection retry logic

For both AMQP and MQTT, the SDK will try to reconnect anytime there is any network related disruption. The default retry policy does not have a time limit and will follow exponential back-off.

For more details on the default retry policy and how to override it, see [retry policy documentation](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/master/iothub/device/devdoc/retrypolicy.md).

HTTP is a stateless protocol and will work whenever there is network connectivity.

### Timeout controls

> There are different timeout values that can be configured for the `DeviceClient/ModuleClient` based on the protocol. These values are configuarable through the following transport settings that are passed while creating the client. Once the client is created, the settings cannot be changed. The client will need to be recreated with new settings to make changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are different timeout values that can be configured for the `DeviceClient`/`ModuleClient` based on the protocol. These values are configurable through the following transport settings that are passed while creating the client. Once the client is created, the settings cannot be changed. The client will need to be recreated with new settings to make changes.
```
